# Metadata for Humanexus 2.0

## Credits

- Producer (Initial Story / Guidance / Resources): Katy Börner (Indiana University)
- Creative Director (Animation / Art / Design / Editing): Ushma Patel (Indiana University)
- HRA Models: Andreas Bueckle (Indiana University)
- Sphere Animation Programmer: Peter Kienle (Indiana University)
- Heliosweb Programmer: Filipi Nascimento Silva (Indiana University)
- Sound Artist (Music / Sound Track): Norbert Herber (Indiana University)
- Programmer: Parth Godse (Indiana University)
- NLM Publications Images Extractions: Kiki Kong (Indiana University)
- Narrative Consultant: Todd Theriault (Indiana University)

## Overview

This short animation is both an exciting journey through the human body and a vivid showcase for some of the fascinating data and imagery generated by the Human Reference Atlas (HRA). After a brief homage to some of the great anatomical drawings of the past, our journey begins at the level of the adult human body. From there, we move through increasing levels of magnification—zooming in by powers of 10—to view the anatomical structures, functional tissue units, cells, organelles, ribosomes, and amino acid chains that become visible at each new level. As we move to magnification strengths that have only recently become technologically possible, the human anatomy we encounter appears even more strange and wondrous. In the end, we zoom back out to the familiar body view, but we arrive there with an awareness of the amazing worlds that exist within the multiscale human body.

## Sponsor

This work has been funded by the NIH Common Fund through the Office of Strategic Coordination/Office of the NIH Director under awards OT2OD033756 and OT2OD026671.

## Data and Image Credits

- Anatomical images from the Notebooks of Leonardo da Vinci (1490, 1506–13).
- Mosaic, sphere, and grid features around 400,000 images from National Library of Medicine publications. 
- Featured images from research groups funded by HuBMAP (The Human Biomolecular Atlas Program) (2025), https://hubmapconsortium.org/image-of-the-week.
  - 3D map of multiscalar neurovascular connections between nephrons of the human kidney across the lifespan from Dr. Sanjay Jain and Dr. Gloria Pryhuber. 
  - 3D, 50x light sheet fluorescence microscopy (LSFM) image of an adult human kidney cortex from Dr. Sanjay Jain and Liam McLaughlin.
  - CODEX image of the small intestine Joanna Bi and Dr. Bei Wei.
- 3D HRA Pop Helios animation uses open-access data from the GTEx v9 release. https://gtexportal.org/home/downloads/adult-gtex/single_cell. 
- Functional Tissue Unit images from https://humanatlas.io/2d-ftu-illustrations?releaseVersion=2.3. 

# References

Bidanta, Supriya, Katy Börner, Bruce W. Herr II, Ellen M. Quardokus, Marcell Nagy, Katherine S. Gustilo, Rachel Bajema, Elizabeth Maier, Roland Molontay, and Griffin Weber. 2025. "Functional Tissue Units in the Human Reference Atlas." *Nature Communications* 16: 1526. https://doi-org.proxyiub.uits.iu.edu/10.1038/s41467-024-54591-6. 

Patel, Ushma, Griffin Weber, Katherine S. Gustilo, and Katy Börner. 2023. *Human Reference Atlas: Vasculature Common Coordinate Framework (VCCF)*. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zQeMgxo8n_U. 

Patel, Ushma, John W. Hickey, and Katy Börner. 2025. *Human Reference Atlas: Define Yourself—The Human Gut Atlas Story*. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_H3S5HeFFPE. 

Sappol, Michael, ed. 2011. *Hidden Treasure: The National Library of Medicine*. New York: Blast Books. ISBN 978-0-922233-42-7.

---




